General Questions:

● What did you learn yesterday/this week?
    - Contex in next js
● Talk about your preferred development environment. (OS, Editor,
Browsers, Tools etc.), give us the reason.
    - OS Windows, VS Code, Firefox, 
● Tell me about the biggest mistake you&#39;ve made in [some recent time
period] and how you would do it differently today. What did you learn
from this experience?
● Why we must choose you?
    -  Because my skills and experience align with the requirements .
● What is MVC?
    - Model-View-Controller is a design pattern in software development, especially in web development.
● What is function, class, and constructor?
● Describe briefly how HTTPS works.
● What is JSON?
    - JavaScript Object Notation is a data interchange format.
● What is XML?
    - eXtensible Markup Language is a text-based data format for structuring and representing data.



Basic Questions:

● Why did you want to be a software developer / engineer?
    - I never dreamed of becoming a software developer; I was simply interested in computers because my highest grades in high school were in computer science.
● Describe the software development process.
    - Planning, Analysis, Implemtation, Testing, Maintenance 
● What projects are you working personally?
    - Develop system for sync data from omnichannel to Erp
● What projects have you completed till now?
    - RCTIPlus, CMS RCTIads, CMS News RCTIPlus, System Sync data, Dashbord monitoring system sync data, Indoteknik, 
● What is the biggest problem you have faced in your projects and how do you solve it?
    - connect to api all marketplace. - exlore the documment
● Why did the project fail?
● Which design patterns have you used and in what situations?
● What is the difference between computer software and computer program?
● What are the 3 principles to simplify your life?
    - doing the right think, in the right place and the right time.
● What language do you prefer while writing complex algorithm?
    - for now php and JavaScript
● Which are important tools to test the quality of your codes?
● What is the difference between local and global variable?
    - local variable is defined for specific function, global variable is defined at the top lavel program so is accessible from anywhere.
● How can you debug a system in production environment, while it is being used?
● How do you design scalable system?
● What are the advantages of golang?
● Which programming language works best for you, and explain why?
    - PHP and JavaScript
    - PHP is a widely-used server-side programming language that is popular in web development.
    - JavaScript is a client-side programming language that underlies the logic and interactions on many modern websites and web applications.


MySQL Questions:

● What is the difference between MyISAM and InnoDB?
    - MyISAM does not support transactions. InnoDB supports transactions.
● What is InnoDB buffer pool?
● What is the command for print the query process list in mysql?
    -SHOW PROCESSLIST;
● What you will do when you found your table is marked as corrupt?
● How to export database/tables in mysql?
    - using phpmyadmin
        Open phpMyAdmin in your web browser.
        Select the database you want to export from the left sidebar.
        Click the "Export" tab.
        Choose the export method (Quick, Custom, etc.) and format (SQL, CSV, etc.).
        Optionally, select specific tables to export or export the entire database.
        Click the "Go" button to start the export process, and the SQL file will be downloaded to your computer.
● How to import database/tables in mysql?
    - using phpmyadmin
        Open phpMyAdmin in your web browser.
        Select the database you want to import into from the left sidebar.
        Click on the "Import" tab.
        Choose the SQL file you want to import.
        Click the "Start Import" button to begin the import process.

● What is the difference between a left and a right join?
    - left join -> return all rows from the left table, and match the rows from the right table.
    - right join -> retrun all rows from the right table, and the match row from the left join.
● What is union function for?
    - is used for combine the result sert of two or more select queries into a single result.
● Give sample for query the date today + 5 days ahead
    - SELECT DATA_DATE(CURRENT(), INTERVAL 5 DAY) AS date;
● Give sample for query data that was inserted more than 5 minutes ago
    - SELECT * FROM your_table WHERE TIMESTAMPDIFF(MINUTE, your_table.timestamp_column, CURRENT_TIMESTAMP()) > 5;
● Give sample for query data using timezone convert from GMT+7 to GMT+3


Advance Questions:

● Which web server did you prefer? Tell us the reason?
● What is memory DB and what it’s used for? And give us some samples.
● Estimate how long it takes to sort 1 trillion numbers?
● How did you measure the hardware requirements for your application?
● What you will choose to use for message queuing system? What’s the
technology that you will involve?
● How to maximize the web server performance?
● When you have to develop client-server application, what kind of protocol that you will use to communicate between those two? And
what is the format of data that you prefer to use for transfer?
● How you find out the user agent name?
● What’s the advantage and disadvantage between asynchronous and synchronous process?
● How to make multi-threading in PHP/Linux environment?
● What kind of encryption that you prefer to use to hide the secret string?
    - bcrypt
● If you have 30 million records in one day, how you will design your database structure?


Fun Questions:
● Tell me what you will do when you lost all your source code?
    - ReClone from git
● If you were stuck on a desert island with only 5 command-line utilities, which would you choose?
● You come across a random computer and it appears to be a command console for the universe. What is the first thing you type?
● Tell me about a creative way that you've used SSH?
● You have deleted by error a running script, what could you do to restore it?
● What will happen on 19 January 2038?